hey how's it going dave2d here so if
you're one of my viewers that watch my
videos because you want to purchase
a high performance or a gaming laptop
that isn't
crazy expensive and you want someone
that's more reasonably priced
you want to pay attention to this one so
this is the hp omen 15
and here's the thing as a reviewer you
start to build these
expectations for brands and products
of what you think the product will be
like of what you think it should be like
before the product even comes out like
you know
you know an apple macbook is gonna be
expensive and it's gonna run a little
hot
and the same thing goes with hp omen
stuff like you know
over the years it's just they don't make
particularly
high performance machines that run cool
that's just not what they've been doing
at least not for
five or six years they've been bringing
hp omens to the market
this year's a little bit different this
is the omen 15 for 2020 and they changed
so much stuff
like we we just got to go in so this
is a machine that comes in two variants
an amd version
and an intel version now people always
ask me why do you get the intel version
dave don't you like are you an intel
fanboy listen as a reviewer if you're
gonna review
a product particularly for one that has
questionable thermal performance in the
past
you're gonna get the hottest
configuration you want the one that has
the highest risk of
not performing properly so it's an intel
version and it's
a high spec intel version to get these
things as hot as possible
because if these things underperform
here
now you know because if i got like a a
ryzen version and it got like a low end
gpu
if it performs great you have no idea
how good the the hot ones are going to
run
right you get it okay this is the
fully specced out intel version and
let's just jump into performance
it has excellent performance the
components are very powerful so it
pushes out great frame rates and games
and thermally there's no throttling the
temperatures are comfortable
fan noise isn't crazy loud this is a
machine that is just
so unlike hp they've never had a device
that was cooled as well as this
like their whole hp lineup for years
this is the best by far now if there's
one complaint i have about the thermal
system it's the fans
don't go completely silent at idle
there's no way to actually turn these
fans down enough
so that they're inaudible like the fan
is on right now the mic is picking it up
ever so slightly right you can probably
hear it
it's not annoying but if you work in an
environment or you have some kind of
work which requires a completely silent
system this ain't going to be it but
aside from that
thermally it's on point okay i'm just
going to the design of this thing
because they revamped the
exterior of this thing as well this year
it now has this
diamond on the front of the laptop
that's this bluish green
gradient fade it's very obvious like if
you look at this you can tell
if you know your laptop so this is an hp
omen but at the same time it's not
super obnoxious right it's not a glowing
one it doesn't light up
and it's subtle enough at least to me i
feel like some people are gonna hate
this
but i personally like it i think this is
something that sets it apart from
thousands of other laptops out there but
at the same time it's not
annoying it's a metal build that's metal
on the top
it's got metal on the keyboard deck it's
a unibody chassis
and the bottom is also metal there is a
couple issues i have
in terms of the kind of build quality
the
hinge i would say is a little looser
than i'd like like the screen hinge
when you lift it up and down it's got a
little more play than i'd like to not
like a wobble but
i just feel like the hinges should be
slightly tighter but there's also this
issue
where on the side of the laptop on this
yeah you can see it here
the screen on a laptop rests on the
keyboard deck when it's closed right
and on the actual palm rest area there
is material there so that when you close
it
it rests on that palm rest area but on
the back half of that screen
there's nothing holding that screen up
like there's nothing supporting it
so let's say you do lift your laptop up
like you want to pick up to go somewhere
if you grab it on the front here it's no
problem you're pushing down on it
and the palm rest area is supporting it
but if you pick it up
on the back half of it there's this
weird flex
that just happens to be there i don't
like it i don't know if that's going to
affect the
longevity or the durability of the
screen because it's not like you're
cranking it hard
but i just feel like it was a bit of a
design miss when they built this thing
i just wish it wasn't there because
otherwise the build on this thing is
fantastic
the port selection is pretty nice you
got your regular usb connections but you
also have an sd card slot
and an ethernet jack and you have two
display outputs
and there's also a third like they have
a dongle that they include
so there's technically three video
outputs on this machine
if you so choose so it's a healthy dose
of ports
the screen that i have on this unit is
the upgraded 4k
120 hertz panel i normally stray away
from 4k panels on laptops particularly
gaming laptops because
i like my high refresh and often they
don't come in high refresh
this comes in 120 hertz and it supports
g-sync so
very fast very smooth bright great
colors
i really like this screen now this is
the upgraded panel so if i had to choose
one of the
panels as like a universal
recommendation it'd be that first
upgrade so
1080p 144 hertz very easy recommendation
it's not super expensive
but it gives like great gaming
experiences you want that faster refresh
uh the keyboard this is an excellent
layout i feel like this is like the
model keyboard layout
for a laptop nice clean arrow key
clusters and dedicated page up page down
keys and they're in this really obvious
spot
the reason why it's so good is because
this is the same layout as a regular
desktop keyboard right you don't have to
reorient yourself just because of the
laptop
you know where stuff is because you've
typed on a regular keyboard
i think that's why i like this layout so
much the keys themselves are a little
small but they're responsive
i think most people really enjoy using
this keyboard now the lighting comes in
a few variants
this is the fully upgraded one like it's
got per key rgb
the base model comes in a fully red like
only red lighting and if you pay 10
bucks you can get four zone
so pay the 10 bucks i feel like you'll
regret it otherwise
the trackpad is okay like the gestures
and tracking are fine
it's glass surface very smooth i like it
but the mechanism for the click
is it feels sluggish almost like
not as responsive as i'd like it to be i
think it's just the button underneath
now if you take a look at the insides
the first thing i noticed was the
significantly improved thermal system
this year
it now vents out the back and one of the
sides the previous omens have always
vented out the back
and often times not enough of it but now
it's got bigger fans
three big heat pipes this thing is done
well
there's two ram slots two nvme bays and
a 70 watt hour battery
now in this unit i have a 4k panel i'm
getting three and a half hours of
battery life i feel like if you had the
1080p panel
it'd be like four maybe four and a half
hours to be expected considering how
powerful the system is
but that is what we have for battery
life and then the speakers on the side
they are classically mediocre as you'd
expect on a
gaming laptop you know that's maybe the
next frontier we've solved thermals
speakers are next okay i want to close
off this conversation with
this topic of well the industry right
now
a long time ago when the first gaming
laptop came to the market
i'm sure it had terrible thermals i
don't know which company made it i don't
know how bad the numbers actually were
but there's no way it was a properly
cooled
machine but look where we are today july
2020 we're looking at
hp omen that is properly cooled it took
hp five or six years to land on this
but they've they've done it right this
is something that i feel like this is
symbolic of the entire industry the
entire laptop industry
you look at any company out there hp
acer asus
lenovo alienware razer they're all
capable of making machines now that do
not
overheat which is awesome like all the
memes that people are making over the
years
sure they're expensive and sure the fans
can be loud sometimes
but at the very least they run cool
that's a win okay that's the hp omen i
think this is a
a very good machine uh considering its
price especially
all right hope you guys enjoyed this
video thumbs if you liked it subs if you
loved it i'll see you guys next time
[Music]
you